# NetScrapper
A Network Traffic Classifier for Online Applications using Deep Learning
Network traffic analysis is the process of recognizing user applications, networking protocols, and communication patterns running through the network. Traffic analysis is useful for identifying security threads, server performance deterioration, configuration errors, and latency problems in some network components. The increasing ubiquity of network traffic and the new applications’ deployment has increased traffic analysis complexity. Despite the importance, the traditional network traffic classification approaches can only recognize user applications that are running over static well-known network ports such as FTP, SSH, HTTP, SMTP, etc. However, most modern user applications use dynamic ports, virtual private networks, and encrypted tunnels. Moreover, these applications are transported over HTTPS connections, making it very challenging for traditional port-based approaches to recognize such applications. One way for classifying the modern network traffic is to use machine learning to distinguish between the different traffic attributes such as packet count and size, packet inter-arrival time, packet send-receive ratio, etc. In this project, we implemented an AI-powered network traffic classifier for online applications using Deep Packet Inspection (DPI). Our classifier uses three deep learning models, namely K-Nearest Neighbors (KNN), Random Forest (RF), and Artificial Neural Network (ANN), for classifying the most popular 53 online applications, including Amazon, Youtube, Google, Twitter, etc. We used an open dataset containing 3,577,296 packet flows with different 78 features for training, validating, and testing the deep learning models. A web-based user interface is developed using Python Flask Framework, which enables users to upload a snapshot of their network traffic to the network classifier. Also, we created a middleware pipeline for interfacing the three models with the Flask user interface.
